Thank you.
Hi, Mike Cuthbert here, one of the book guides.
Alan Stipek and I have done a book segment on my talk shows on both commercial and public radio for many years.
What started as a consumer feature was an entertainment feature, too, beginning with the first broadcast in 1978.
What you're about to hear is a short selection of typical moments from several shows, moments in which an ordinary book show becomes something else.
A representative hour program is on side, too, but for now, enjoy highlights of the book guides.
We want to start this evening with one little feature before we get to the calls, and that is rare books and rare things, supposedly, not to be invested in.
Right.
Because they aren't good investments.
What's high on your list, Alan?
The highest on my list is Vanity Press Books.
Do not assume that your Aunt Hattie's book on Fluffy the Cat is going to appreciate in value, or somebody else's Aunt Hattie.
So if you go into these garage sales, into these book sales, and on the final day you see all the Vanity Press books, which have been looked over for the previous four days, all selling for 25 cents apiece, that's what they're worth.
Okay.
And this is an individual author, but this is the greatest faux pas, the other Winston Churchill.
Who is the other Winston Churchill?
The other Winston Churchill is an American writer from the turn of the century.
Yeah.
He wrote books like Richard Carvel, Soldiers of Fort... Hot Ice Cream?
Yes.
No, no, no.
He wrote a series of novels from the turn of the century.
The early Sir Winston Churchill books are from that same time period, and invariably you get people who think they have an early Sir Winston Churchill come running in, can't believe that they've gotten one of these scarce books.
They're not scarce.
They're not desirable.
They're not in any way appreciable.
They make great firewood, okay?
Do not go out when you see Winston Churchill titles from the 1900s in the thrift shop and think you're buying the valuable books.
Check out the title.
Terrence Mann.
Don't collect any books by Terrence Mann.
Why?
He didn't exist.
He's the fictitious author in Fields of Dreams, right?
Uh-huh.
When that movie came out, people called our store, right?
They wanted Terrence Mann.
He doesn't exist.
Well, now, wait a minute.
He may.
But you've got a ball field to have him come back, right?
Yeah, right.
If he writes, he will come, right?
Never buy textbooks, Reader's Digest condensed books, book clubs.
Do not buy Harold Robbins, Jacqueline Suzanne, Danielle Steele, or any of those people.
Not because you might not like the books, but nobody's going to buy them for first edition state.
I have never seen a first edition of any of those authors ever sell.
No kidding.
They don't.
Even though one of them is dead.
Right.
That's the way it is.
Leroy Neiman.
Fascinating.
He'll sign 50,000 books.
Ah, okay.
Those are more or less the ones that I would stay away from.
Very good.
Okay.
We sometimes start a show with a short feature like the one you just heard, but most of the time, we're on the phones.
Our number is 202-882-WRC1.
There is one line open of our nine.
Let's go to Geraldine in Darnstown.
Good morning, Geraldine.
Good morning.
I have one book.
Okay, good.
Princess Mary's gift book on the front.
At the bottom, it says, all profits on sale given to the Queens, quote, work for women, quote, fund.
Is that the 18, excuse me, 1916, 1917?
It has an inscription in the front to Barbara Gilson from so-and-so.
January the 1st, 1916.
Right.
Princess Mary's and Queen Anne's books and King Albert's book were all books published in England during the First World War with all money going towards specific funds to help, in this case a woman's group, or for food.
And they were all used...
to help people who were victims of the First World War.
And the books themselves have a compilation of poems and short stories and illustrations by people of the time.
They sell anywhere from $15 to about $50, depending on the binding and the condition.
What about if you wanted to take the plates out individually?
No, no.
You could, but I mean, I wouldn't...
A lot of people do take plates out there because there's a Rackham plate in there, and there's a Willie Pagani plate in there, and I'm sure, I think, a Maxfield Parish.
But they're not of any great value, those plates.
They're reproductions, and they're nicer in the book.
That's my opinion.
Let's go to Julie from Falls Church.
You're on WRC.
Yes, I just have a quickie here.
It's all the president's men, but it's signed by Carl Bernstein, by Bob Woodward, and Dustin Hoffman.
Well, Dustin Hoffman puts it over the edge.
Really?
It does.
I mean, now if you have Robert Redford, you have a nice association piece.
The book itself, the first edition and the dust wrapper, would probably, with the two signatures, would sell for $25.
With Dustin Hoffman, I'd say you probably could throw an extra $25, maybe $50 to it.
We're into movies right now.
We're doing a lot of 16- and 8-millimeter movies and books on movies in a magazine every month.
And we're finding that there's a real strong market out there for collectibles.
And so if I had that book, I'd probably throw it in the air for between $50 and $75.
I just got a copy of The Man with the Golden Gun, signed by both Roger Moore and Sean Connery, the paperback.
We priced that at over $100.
And, of course, the older it is, the better.
Which means I keep it for a long time or give it to my children.
Well, you know, you don't want to be reading obituaries every day hoping that the three people who signed the book die, because that's what's going to put it over the edge.
I don't think this is college tuition money.
Let's go to Leslie next.
Good morning.
You're on WRC.
Hi, I have here six books.
They are soft brown leather.
suede bindings they're called little journey yes little journeys by elbert hubbard the east aurora new york the roy crofters this one's 1901 right there are hundreds in the little journey series the roy crofters were craftsmen at the turn of the century and craftswoman who published and did all other forms of art um their printing was was well respected and still is and many people collect them
Depending on the addition of the little journeys you have, it can run anywhere from $5 to $10 for an average binding all the way up to $100 to $200 for the sign-limited bindings.
It sounds like you have a $5 to $10 one, unless you can see in the back, it's signed by Albert Hubbard with a very elaborate East Aurora, New York, Roy Croft, this emblem, which is, it says EA encircled in ink with like a pendulum-like bottom coming down next to his name.
Okay, I'll look in the back.
Sure thing.
Okay.
I wouldn't give them up.
They're beautiful.
They're great books.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Once again, all nine of our lines are blinking, which means they're busy, and that's good.
Let's go to Betty so we can get lots of folks on the air.
Betty, can we help you?
You're on WRC.
Yes, I have a book which I bought in London in the middle 70s.
It's a four-edged painting.
Whoa.
And it's bound in gold.
I mean, the leaves are edged in gold.
It's the 10th edition of Tennyson's Poems.
And the publisher is, let me see here.
Well, the book, let's get past the book.
Let's get right to the painting.
Is it a single or a double four-edge?
I don't know.
Okay, a single fore... You mean either way?
Yeah, either way is a double.
Oh, I really don't know.
I really don't know.
Okay, well, obviously, you know you have a single fore-edge when you turn the fore-edge in one direction.
That's right.
Now, turning to the other direction, you have another image.
That would be a double fore-edge painting.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
And, Betty, would you mind for one second, let me explain to the listeners what a fore-edge painting is?
All right.
A fore-edge painting is a painting which was done, started in England in the Victorian times, where...
An artist would paint on the fore edge or the side of the book a painting which could not be seen unless the pages were kind of flipped and held together.
And if you are a book collector, this is a serendipitous surprise to a lot of people when they find old leatherback books from the 1800s.
And they turn the pages and they see these four edges.
Some of the four edge paintings will sell into the thousands of dollars.
They are still a program, not program, but there are still four edge painters in England who are doing them at the present time.
Betty, have you found it?
Do you have a double four edge?
I have a single.
A single.
What is the image?
It's the 10.
F-O-R-D.
Right.
Mm-hmm.
And the book is about 10 inches in height?
Yes, I would say so.
Right.
And it's blue Moroccan leather.
That's a nice book.
I mean, I would say that if it was an 18th century forage, and I can't tell without seeing it.
It's 1855.
1855.
Oh, the book is 1855.
Oh, yes.
Well, we don't know if the forage is, in fact, the new forage or was actually painted...
at that time without seeing it.
If it was, I would say that image would sell anywhere between $500 to $1,500.
And again, I'm putting a parameter because I haven't seen the image itself.
Is that for the single edge?
That's for the single edge.
Yeah, but can I bring it in?
sometime.
I'd be more than happy to take a look at it in the early 19th century.
Thank you very much, sir.
Let's go to Alexandria.
Craig, you're on WRC.
Okay, thank you, Mike.
Ellen, I have a small, probably about four inches by seven inch, leather-bound book, and it's called A Biographical Antidotes of Founders of the French Republic and of other eminent characters who have distinguished themselves during the progress of the Revolution.
Mm-hmm.
And at the bottom of the page, it says, Philadelphia, printed for Matthew Carey.
Really?
Comma, number 118, Market Street.
1803 is the date on the bottom.
Now, there's no publisher.
You wouldn't have a publisher.
You'd have a printer.
A printer, okay.
Yeah, something printed for Matthew Carey would be, that's all you would need.
Okay.
Obviously, it's a leatherback book, and it's probably something that we would sell in the store between $50 to $100 without doing any research.
Anything on the French Revolution, we can give a little information here.
One of the interesting things about the French Revolution, that during the period of the Republic, books that were published in France are published by, not the date, not by the calendar date, 1799, 1800, by the date of the Republic.
So it would be anno 1, anno 2, anno 3, anno 4 for the, what is it, 17 years of the Republic?
And so if you have a book in French from that time period and you can't figure out why it has this peculiar date, it's because it's been printed specially for the French Republic.
Okay.
Okay, but this was printed in English.
Right.
And, yeah, again, a $50 to $100 book.
Okay, great.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Let's go back to our phones now.
And Steve in Washington, you're on WRC.
Yes, good afternoon.
First, about 27, 8, 9 years ago, I was in Madrid.
And I was at El Prado Museum and there was Salvador Dali who finally consented to sign my catalog.
He also spoke to me, but it's true.
There's no way to understand what the man was saying.
And it wasn't Spanish either.
I know a little Spanish.
He was speaking some other tongue of his own.
Now, I just found it again.
Does that have any value?
I had a personal relationship, not a personal relationship, but I met Salvador Dali also once.
And I have to tell you, he does speak a language all the time.
He should have been a politician.
If you could understand him.
About 30 years ago, that puts you in the 60s.
He was signing his books at that time.
Books that he had printed in the 70s were mostly forged.
And there's a wonderful story, which if I capsulated would probably take three minutes, so I can't even tell you the story.
But there was a printer, a publisher in London or in Paris who was signing all his works.
He was his publisher.
If you have an actual signature and you know you were there.
Oh, I was there.
Then you can figure that it's worth at least $100.
Really?
Yeah.
And I was throwing it away.
Well, I wouldn't.
All right.
Now, finally, this is a general question which may help your other listeners.
I bought a house 25 years ago from a woman who was 98.
I never met her, but she was an extraordinary person and extremely educated.
And I kept a bunch of books for reasons I know not why.
They were somewhere in a basement, and I really want to get rid of them.
The fact that a book is old, about 100 years or so old, doesn't give it any value, does it?
That's correct.
I mean, I'm perfectly willing to throw them away, but the thought of throwing out poor Ethel Barry, that really, she inscribed each of her books as she was a marvelous woman.
Would it take me to call you and see?
I mean, I'd even donate it somewhere if it was any value.
What we do is we have a list of different charitable organizations and libraries in the area that take books, that sell them.
for that specific charity, or in fact, like the Wheaton Library, we donate books on a weekly basis for our customers, and they have a weekly book sale, and that money goes towards buying books for the library and for maintenance.
And if you have any books, I mean, any listener out here, there's no reason to throw anything away.
There's a way to recycle it, and we do help people out.
We do weekly runs for various charitable organizations, and we'll help you and pick up the books and write a donation for you.
Fine.
Well, thank you very much.
Thank you for your call.
The Book Guys have been successful on both commercial and public radio, but we've always felt our real home is on public radio.
Your listeners listen, and they read.
The Book Guys will keep them listening and talking about what they read, and that you can make book on.
So why not book the show for your listeners?
1-800-BOOKGUYS.
You can turn to Side 2 now and hear an entire show of the Book Guys.